docs: add DocList and DocVec section (#1343)
docarray/docarray: docs/user_guide/representing/array.md

which is at the heart of Machine Learning, especially in Deep Learning.

Let's take an example to illustrate the difference:

Let's say you want to work with an Image:

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc
from docarray.typing import NdArray

class ImageDoc(BaseDoc):
    image: NdArray[
        3, 224, 224
    ] = None  # [3, 224, 224] this just mean we know in advance the shape of the tensor
``` 

And that you have a function that takes a contiguous array of images as input (like a deep learning model):

```python
def predict(image: NdArray['batch_size', 3, 224, 224]):
    ...
``` 

Let's create a `DocList` of `ImageDoc`s and pass it to the function:

```python
from docarray import DocList
import numpy as np

docs = DocList[ImageDoc](
    [ImageDoc(image=np.random.rand(3, 224, 224)) for _ in range(10)]
)

predict(np.stack(docs.image))
...
predict(np.stack(docs.image))
```

When you call `docs.image`, `DocList` loops over the ten documents and collects the image attribute of each document in a list. It is similar to doing:

```python
images = []
for doc in docs:
    images.append(doc.image)
```

> this means that if you need to call `docs.image` multiple time, you will have to stack in the array in a contiguous batch array
> multiple times. This is not optimal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that if you call `docs.image` multiple times, you will have to stack in the array in a contiguous batch array
multiple times. This is not optimal.
```

I still don't understand this bit

Author: I rewrite the sentence

Reviewer: I rewrote your rewrite and pushed it

# Collection of documents

> DocArray allow users to represent and manipulate multi-modal data to build AI application (Generative AI, neural search ...). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DocArray allows users to represent and manipulate multi-modal data to build AI applications (Generative AI, neural search ...). 
```

> DocArray could be seen as a `multi-modal extension of Pydantic for Machine Learning use case`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DocArray could be seen as a `multi-modal extension of Pydantic for Machine Learning use cases`. 
```

> !!! warning

Reviewer 2: `warning` is a bit harsh here I feel

>     DocArray is actually more than just a Pydantic extension, it is a general purpose multi-modal python libraries. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    DocArray is actually more than just a Pydantic extension, it is a general purpose multi-modal Python library. 
```

>      But it is usefully to see it that way to fully understand the representing ability that DocArray offer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     But it can be usefl usefully to see it that way to fully understand the representing ability that DocArray offers.
```

As you have seen in the last section (LINK), the fundamental building block of DocArray is the [`BaseDoc`][docarray.base_doc.doc.BaseDoc] class which allows to represent a *single* document, a *single* datapoint.

In Machine Learning though we often need to work with an *array* of documents, an *array* of datapoints.

> This section introduce the concept of `AnyDocArray` LINK which is an (abstract) collection of `BaseDoc`. This library

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section introducew the concept of `AnyDocArray` LINK which is an (abstract) collection of `BaseDoc`. This library
```

> This section introduce the concept of `AnyDocArray` LINK which is an (abstract) collection of `BaseDoc`. This library

Reviewer 2: Reading this I am starting to have doubts about the name `AnyDocArray`. Should we drop the `Any`?

> This section introduce the concept of `AnyDocArray` LINK which is an (abstract) collection of `BaseDoc`. This library

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section introduce the concept of `AnyDocArray` LINK which is an (abstract) collection of `BaseDoc`. This library's
```

name: `DocArray` is actually derive from this concept, and it stands for `DocumentArray`.

## AnyDocArray

> `AnyDocArray` is an abstract class that represent an array of `BaseDoc` which is not meant to be used directly, but to be subclassed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`AnyDocArray` is an abstract class that represents an array of `BaseDoc` which is not meant to be used directly, but to be subclassed.
```

We provide two concrete implementation of `AnyDocArray` :

> - [`DocList`][docarray.array.doc_list.doc_list.DocList] which is a python list of `BaseDoc`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`DocList`][docarray.array.doc_list.doc_list.DocList] which is a Python list of `BaseDoc`
```

> - [`DocList`][docarray.array.doc_list.doc_list.DocList] which is a python list of `BaseDoc`

Reviewer 2: It's not really a Python list, is it? It is python list-like

- [`DocVec`][docarray.array.doc_vec.doc_vec.DocVec] which is a column based representation of `BaseDoc`

We will go into the difference between `DocList` and `DocVec` in the next section but let's first focus on what they have in common.

> `AnyDocArray` spirit is to extend the `BaseDoc` and `BaseModel` concept to the Array level in a *seamless* way

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`AnyDocArray`s spirit is to extend the `BaseDoc` and `BaseModel` concept to the Array level in a *seamless* way.
```

!!! important
    `AnyDocArray` is the Array equivalent of a Pydantic `BaseModel`or a DocArray [`BaseDoc`][docarray.base_doc.doc.BaseDoc]. 

>     It extends the `BaseDoc` API at the Array level.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this point here

### Example

> before going into detail lets look at a code example. After all it all a question of API and code 
> example is the best way to visualize an API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
before going into detail lets look at a code example.
```

!!! Note
    

>     `DocList` and `DocVec` are both `AnyDocArray`. The following section will use `DocList` as an example, but the same 
>     apply to `DocVec`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    `DocList` and `DocVec` are both `AnyDocArray`. The following section will use `DocList` as an example, but the same 
    applies to `DocVec`.
```

> First we need to create a Doc class, our data schema. Let's say we want to represent a banner with an image, a title and a description.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First you need to create a Doc class, our data schema. Let's say you want to represent a banner with an image, a title and a description.
```

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc, DocList
from docarray.typing import ImageUrl

class BannerDoc(BaseDoc):
    image: ImageUrl
    title: str
    description: str
```

> let's instantiate several `BannerDoc`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's instantiate several `BannerDoc`
```

```python
banner1 = BannerDoc(
    image='https://example.com/image1.png',
    title='Hello World',
    description='This is a banner',
)

banner2 = BannerDoc(
    image='https://example.com/image2.png',
    title='Bye Bye World',
    description='This is (distopic) banner',
)
```

> we can now collect them into a `DocList` of `BannerDoc`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now collect them into a `DocList` of `BannerDoc`:
```

```python
docs = DocList[BannerDoc]([banner1, banner2])

docs.summary()
```

```cmd
╭──────── DocList Summary ────────╮
│                                 │
│   Type     DocList[BannerDoc]   │
│   Length   2                    │
│                                 │
╰─────────────────────────────────╯
╭──── Document Schema ─────╮
│                          │
│   BannerDoc              │
│   ├── image: ImageUrl    │
│   ├── title: str         │
│   └── description: str   │
│                          │
╰──────────────────────────╯
```

`docs` here is a array-like collection of `BannerDoc`.

You can access document inside it with the usual python array API:

```python
print(docs[0])
```

```cmd
BannerDoc(image='https://example.com/image1.png', title='Hello World', description='This is a banner')
```

or iterate over it:

```python
for doc in docs:
    print(doc)
```

```cmd
BannerDoc(image='https://example.com/image1.png', title='Hello World', description='This is a banner')
BannerDoc(image='https://example.com/image2.png', title='Bye Bye World', description='This is (distopic) banner')
```

!!! note

>     The syntax `DocList[BannerDoc]` should surprise you in this context,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The syntax `DocList[BannerDoc]` might surprise you in this context,
```

    it is actually at the heart of DocArray but let's come back to it later LINK TO LATER and continue with the example.

> As we said earlier `DocList` or more generaly `AnyDocArray` extend the `BaseDoc` API at the Array level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we said earlier, `DocList` or more generally `AnyDocArray`, extends the `BaseDoc` API at the Array level.
```

> What it means concretely is that the same way you can access with Pydantic at the attribute of your data at the 
> document level, you can do access it  at the Array level.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What this means concretely is that the same way you can access your data at the 
document level, you can do access it  at the Array level.

```

> Let's see how it looks:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's see what that looks like:
```

> at the document level:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the document level:
```

```python
print(banner.url)
```

```cmd
https://example.com/image1.png'
```

> at the Array level:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the Array level:
```

```python
print(docs.url)
```

```cmd
['https://example.com/image1.png', 'https://example.com/image2.png']
```

!!! Important

>     All the attribute of `BannerDoc` are accessible at the Array level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    All the attributes of `BannerDoc` are accessible at the Array level.
```

!!! Warning

>     Whereas this is true at runtime, static type analyser like Mypy or IDE like PyCharm will not be able to know it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Whereas this is true at runtime, static type analysers like Mypy or IDE like PyCharm will not be able to know it.
```

>     This limitation is know and will be fixed in the future by the introduction of a Mypy, PyCharm, VSCode plugin. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This limitation is known and will be fixed in the future by the introduction of a Mypy, PyCharm, VSCode plugin. 
```

> This even work when you have a nested `BaseDoc`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This even works when you have a nested `BaseDoc`:
```

        title='Hello World',
        description='This is a banner',
    ),
    content='Hello wolrd is the most used example in programming, but do you know that ? ...',
)

page2 = PageDoc(
    banner=BannerDoc(
        image='https://example.com/image2.png',
        title='Bye Bye World',
        description='This is (distopic) banner',
    ),
    content='What if the most used example in programming was Bye Bye World, would programming be that much fun ? ...',
)

docs = DocList[PageDoc]([page1, page2])

docs.summary()
```

```cmd
╭─────── DocList Summary ───────╮
│                               │
│   Type     DocList[PageDoc]   │
│   Length   2                  │
│                               │
╰───────────────────────────────╯
╭────── Document Schema ───────╮
│                              │
│   PageDoc                    │
│   ├── banner: BannerDoc      │
│   │   ├── image: ImageUrl    │
│   │   ├── title: str         │
│   │   └── description: str   │
│   └── content: str           │
│                              │
╰──────────────────────────────╯
``` 

```python
print(docs.banner)
``` 

```cmd
<DocList[BannerDoc] (length=2)>
```

> Yes, `docs.banner` return a nested `DocList` of `BannerDoc` ! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yes, `docs.banner` returns a nested `DocList` of `BannerDoc` ! 
```

You can even access the attribute of the nested `BaseDoc` at the Array level:

```python
print(docs.banner.url)
```

```cmd
['https://example.com/image1.png', 'https://example.com/image2.png']
```

> the same way that with Pydantic and DocArray [BaseDoc][docarray.base_doc.doc.BaseDoc] you would have done:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The same way that with Pydantic and DocArray [BaseDoc][docarray.base_doc.doc.BaseDoc] you would have done:
```

```python
print(page1.banner.image)
```

```cmd
'https://example.com/image1.png'
```

### `DocList[DocType]` syntax

> As you have seen in the previous section, `AnyDocArray` will expose the same attribute as the `BaseDoc` it contains.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you have seen in the previous section, `AnyDocArray` will expose the same attributes as the `BaseDoc` it contains.
```

> But this concept only work if and only if all of the `BaseDoc` in the `AnyDocArray` have the same schema.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But this concept only works if and only if all of the `BaseDoc`s in the `AnyDocArray` have the same schema.
```

> Indeed, if one of your `BaseDoc` have an attribute that the other don't, you will get an error if you try to acces it at
> the array level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Indeed, if one of your `BaseDoc`s has an attribute that the others don't, you will get an error if you try to access it at
the array level.
```

!!! note

>     To be able to extend Pydantic API to the Array level, `AnyDocArray` need to contain homogenous Document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To be able to extend your schema to the Array level, `AnyDocArray` needs to contain homogenous Document.
```

> This is where the custom syntax `DocList[DocType]` come into play.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is where the custom syntax `DocList[DocType]` comes into play.
```

!!!

>     `DocList[DocType]` create a custom [`DocList`][docarray.array.doc_list.doc_list.DocList] that can only contain `DocType` Document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    `DocList[DocType]` creates a custom [`DocList`][docarray.array.doc_list.doc_list.DocList] that can only contain `DocType` Documents.
```

> This syntax is inspired by more statically typed language, and even though it might offend python purist and go against 
> python list principle we believe that it is actually a good user experience to think of Array of `BaseDoc` rather than
> just an array of non-homogenous `BaseDoc`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This syntax is inspired by more statically typed languages, and even though it might offend Python purists, we believe that it is actually a good user experience to think of Array of `BaseDoc` rather than
just an array of non-homogenous `BaseDoc`.
```

> just an array of non-homogenous `BaseDoc`.

Reviewer 2: > to think of Array of `BaseDoc` rather than
> just an array of non-homogenous `BaseDoc`
I don't understand this

> That being said `AnyDocArray` can be used to create a non-homogenous `AnyDocArray`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That being said, `AnyDocArray` can also be used to create a non-homogenous `AnyDocArray`:
```

!!! note
    The default `DocList` can be used to create a non-homogenous list of `BaseDoc`.

!!! warning

>     `DocVec` cannot store non-homogenous `BaseDoc` and always need the `DocVec[DocType]` syntax.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    `DocVec` cannot store non-homogenous `BaseDoc` and always needs the `DocVec[DocType]` syntax.
```

> The usage if non-homogenous `DocList` is really similar to a normal Python list but still offer DocArray functionality
> like serialization and send over the wire (LINK). But it won't be able to extend the Pydantic API to the Array level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The usage of non-homogenous `DocList` is really similar to a normal Python list but still offers DocArray functionality
like serialization and sending over the wire (LINK). But it won't be able to extend the API of your custom schema to the Array level.
```

Here is how you can instantiate a non-homogenous `DocList`:

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc, DocList
from docarray.typing import ImageUrl, AudioUrl

class ImageDoc(BaseDoc):
    url: ImageUrl

class AudioDoc(BaseDoc):
    url: AudioUrl

docs = DocList(
    [
        ImageDoc(url='https://example.com/image1.png'),
        AudioDoc(url='https://example.com/audio1.mp3'),
    ]
)
``` 

But you will not have been able to do 

```python
try:
    docs = DocList[ImageDoc](
        [
            ImageDoc(url='https://example.com/image1.png'),
            AudioDoc(url='https://example.com/audio1.mp3'),
        ]
    )
except ValueError as e:
    print(e)
```

```cmd
ValueError: AudioDoc(
    id='e286b10f58533f48a0928460f0206441',
    url=AudioUrl('https://example.com/audio1.mp3', host_type='domain')
) is not a <class '__main__.ImageDoc'>
```

### `DocList` vs `DocVec`

[`DocList`][docarray.array.doc_list.doc_list.DocList] and [`DocVec`][docarray.array.doc_vec.doc_vec.DocVec] are both

> [`AnyDocArray`][docarray.array.any_array.AnyDocArray] but they have different use case, and they differ in how

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`AnyDocArray`][docarray.array.any_array.AnyDocArray] but they have different use cases, and they differ in how
```

they store the data in memory.

> They share almost everything that as been said in the previous section, but they have some conceptual differences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
They share almost everything that has been said in the previous sections, but they have some conceptual differences.
```

[`DocList`][docarray.array.doc_list.doc_list.DocList] is based on Python List.

> You can, append, extend, insert, pop , ... on it. In DocList, the data is individually owned by each `BaseDoc` collect just

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can append, extend, insert, pop , ... on it. In DocList, the data is individually owned by each `BaseDoc` collect just
```

different Document reference. You want to use [`DocList`][docarray.array.doc_list.doc_list.DocList] when you want to be able

> to rearrange or rerank you data. One flaw of `DocList` is that none of the data is contiguous in memory. So you cannot 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to rearrange or re-rank your data. One flaw of `DocList` is that none of the data is contiguous in memory. So you cannot 
```

> to rearrange or rerank you data. One flaw of `DocList` is that none of the data is contiguous in memory. So you cannot 

Reviewer 2: this is not a `flaw` i would say, this is just how it is

> leverage function that require contiguous data like without first copying the data in a continuous array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
leverage functions that require contiguous data like without first copying the data in a continuous array.
```

[`DocVec`][docarray.array.doc_vec.doc_vec.DocVec] is a columnar data structure. DocVec is always an array
of homogeneous Documents. The idea is that every attribute of the `BaseDoc` will be stored in a contiguous array: a column.

This mean that when you access the attribute of a `BaseDoc` at the Array level, we don't collect under the hood the data
from all the documents (like `DocList`) before giving it back to you. We just return the column that is store in memory.

This really matter when you need to handle multi-modal data that you will feed into algorithm that require contiguous data, like matrix multiplication
which is at the heart of Machine Learning especially in Deep Learning.

> let's take an example to illustrate the difference

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's take an example to illustrate the difference
```

> let's say you want to work with Image:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's say you want to work with Image:
```

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc
from docarray.typing import NdArray

class ImageDoc(BaseDoc):
    image: NdArray[
        3, 224, 224
    ] = None  # [3, 224, 224] this just mean we know in advance the shape of the tensor
``` 

> and that you have a function that take a contiguous array of image as input (like a deep learning model)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And that you have a function that take a contiguous array of image as input (like a deep learning model)
```

```python
def predict(image: NdArray['batch_size', 3, 224, 224]):
    ...
``` 

> let's create a `DocList` of `ImageDoc` and pass it to the function

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's create a `DocList` of `ImageDoc` and pass it to the function
```
